I had never really thought about in that
way that you know philosophy isn't just
on the chalkboard it's I'm not saying I
never thought about it I don't know but
philosophy is not just on the chalkboard
it's actually applying it when you into
in your real life when you have these
emotional reactions like what what can
change the emotional reactions what is
it what is the solution that I can know
that to not feel jealousy talking to a
friend the other day who said to me I've
honest I'd honestly never thought about
this she said you know when your sex
life is going great
it feels like it's only 5% your life and
when your sex life is awful it feels
like it's 95% your life she also
imagines and I've really talking about
this with you cerebrally but I don't get
angry response like I don't get what she
screaming me I'm not afraid I'm like you
know but like one of the other things of
sometimes the baby with you but this is
that you also always imagine that these
women feel as powerfully attracted to me
as you felt when you first fall in love
with me yeah wait wait no but like like
like it's like way fewer than 1% of
women find me this attractive like I I
do not have delusions about that does
look it doesn't matter if it's one in
one in a thousand or one in 10,000 when
I'm not that many like you know Melissa
really is very naturally we're very
compatible with a lot of chemistry and
yeah I mean from the first time we met
supera even before we met she was super
attractive me and so on but like she
really imagines or at least when she's
in this state that all women feel that
way about me you know what really wait
right right right knowing look I've had
to say to her sometimes like look I'm
talking to this person and like whatever
sums I show you screenshot switch off
with like there's no indication that
this person is attracted to me like
there's no indication the conversations
gonna go that way or like like Hadouken
have you considered the possibility that
this person just thinks I'm ugly or
they're just like or is only interested
in talking to me about whatever the
topic is let if you can see the first
book I remember you even had
a jealous reaction you probably may not
remember this so there was an older
woman who was one of my co-workers in
China right and I'm talking with the one
who lived downstairs from us and who and
early on she said to me in a folksy way
so this is an older woman woman older
than me not to mention with Melissa she
said to me in a folksy way she was like
well you know like if you weren't with
Melissa I'd be trying to get into bed
with you myself
all right now you know I think I think
she was I mean she was joking but I
think she was genuinely interested she
was genuinely indicating that she was
attracted to me but you know like there
are certain kinds of humor that married
people 50 years old use and it's not
really that big a deal it's not like a
real threat coming at you you know but I
remember I told you that even like you
know and you you knew her and stuff you
got you guys got along and you know I
remember you had this real visceral
jealous react I mean look baby that's
the most reasonable but that's that's
very different cuz that's someone you
knew face to face whereas sometimes it's
just a line of text on the internet or
something or whatever it is right yeah
so no good look you know I know you have
a lot to say do you think it's more of a
problem or less if it's someone I'm
talking to you about like Plato
Aristotle or like you know I'm gonna do
more and more political content what
civil war in Syria or something like I
don't I do you think it's intellectual
jealousy do you think is just about
human beauty or what even I'm not
jealous of your ex-wife you know yes
she's a lot especially it's hard to be
jealous yeah it's a pretty unenjoyable
life she's put herself into yeah but no
I mean and it's it just seems to be like
about everything - just like maturity -
like oh yeah like yeah
I've been even more concerned because
like I think that you must have so much
more in common with them I like that
they've had the experience that I
haven't had and that's to me that's to
me that's attractive the experience
factor because you're with older men
you're to me a vo it's true but yeah not
everyone's into that right yeah and but
of course it's a huge part of it is
physical beauty yeah
it's it's I don't know I mean it's it's
so shallow and selfish and dumb because
you know you see you know these are the
kinds of philosophical questions I've
dealt with since forever so like I can
give an answer to any of these questions
but if someone were to ask you look
physical beauty is arbitrary and unequal
and it's not like arithmetic ly unequal
it's exponentially unequal if you know
what I mean which is to say it's not
like some one person is five percent
more attractive than someone else like
those two sisters one person is you know
10,000 times more drained infinitely
more attractive than someone else even
though they've got approximately the
same DNA and but I miss you I remember I
saw a model posing with her like four
sisters so it's like a family with four
or five sisters and you could see oh
yeah that's the one who had a career in
modeling and not even though they're
they're you know they're genetically
very similar like right out of these
five sisters one of you had a shot at
being a model like you know often
there's that kind of inequality that's
talking about commercialized beauty not
you know not romantic Beauty really
don't see anything
yeah I'm just saying she can you can see
those those kind of things all the time
but what was if I were to ask you you
know what is the solution
and obviously we mean on a human
personal level what is the solution for
you and me or individual people in the
audience what is the solution to the
problem of this arbitrary and radical
inequality yeah yeah well an example you
could cut this out because this may just
be too hot for you let's hear it
[Music]
okay okay so stop okay yeah we're gonna
have to we're gonna have to cut so this
is this is after the sensor portion okay
but look let me let me ask you this
so you're someone who basically has not
watched pornography in your life it's
not that you've seen it zero
you are never someone do you think it
would at this stage your life make your
experience of jealousy worse or do you
think it would be a kind of area of
therapy meaning of working a working out
of working through of these things you
know to watch pornography and now I've
got to put in a little philosophical KB
here I said this to you I think this
morning like I don't tell you you're the
greatest musician in the world they
don't tell you you're a super talented
musician right but the because I don't
believe it like I think right yeah okay
you can you know what I mean you're a
musician I'm not gonna tell you you're
the most brilliant bug gifted musician
well that's not my okay um and we could
do songs together great but you know I'm
not gonna lie to you like that
but the thing is when you watch any kind
of mainstream media like even TV shows
they just have music in the background
or hit records on the radio you're
always being exposed to the minority of
people who are extraordinarily talented
musicians or extraordinarily well
producing compose music right yeah I
mean in the same way you exposure to
models and advertising and mainstream
media and pornography it's right your
CEO is a most beautiful people and the
men with the biggest penises in the
whole world and this kind of thing it's
not representative right and of course
the the the funny thing I mean I think
almost everyone would agree listed not
everyone would but a lot of people would
the thing is also because of the
internet you can watch pornography of
normal people you can watch like real
grody amateur pornography and most
people find it disgusting and disturbing
because exactly what they want is the
the aesthetic quality of professional
filmmaking that in many ways begins with
professional casting with selecting the
people and and having all their body
hair
removed and all these things and the
lighting but yeah ultimately above all
else the size and the shape of the the
performers male and female but like
would that you know I mean like it's
it's kind of we're so like given that
almost by definition if you're watching
pornography or watching people more
attractive than yourself
yeah unless you really choose not to
which is an option like you know is that
gonna make you know jealousy better or
worse I don't know and I think you know
I was really thinking about it
analytically last night after we stopped
recording because you I had never really
thought about in that way that you know
philosophy isn't just on the chalkboard
it's I'm not saying I never thought
about it I don't know but philosophy is
not just on the chalkboard it's actually
applying it when you need to in your
real life when you have these emotional
reactions like what what can change the
emotional reactions what is it what is
the solution that I can know that to not
feel jealousy or not have this feeling
and I so like I'm desperate you know
like I'm desperate because I it's been
such a shitty thing in my life it's what
you know it's like it's shameful and the
end the emotional breakdowns are still
really extreme they're really extreme
and they're kind of meaningless too
because like there were there are issues
we deal with in the relationship where
it's like well look like there is
something meaningful here like there's
something you know there's something
significant here I can see you're you're
dealing with there's something to learn
from it you know the process but when
you have these kinds of breakdowns most
of the time there's really you know look
at the end of it so what did we just
spend so many hours talking about like
you know in one case it was like
literally like someone sent a comment on
Twitter like saying they'd like to sleep
with me like you know obviously I didn't
control this you know and again you and
there was no photograph of what she
looked like there was nothing right and
you know obviously she could be joking
but in in that case I think a probably
wasn't seer which is okay but like yeah
what do you what do you want one person
out of a thousand
be attractive or something because I've
not diluted like it's whatever whether
it's one in a thousand one in 10,000 and
made a comment on Twitter saying you
know they'd be interested yeah and again
like this one female co-worker who's
married with kids and is like about 50
you know like whatever like you know I
mean you know it is it is what it is but
um is tragic in that you can't really
help how you feel about somebody and I'd
rather you be honest with me if you are
sexually attracted to somebody and it if
it is relevant to of course but yeah
tell me everything I don't know it's
only in these circumstances you know
because of our relationship status you
know like well only because yeah so that
I never thought of him starting to a
friend the other day who said to me I've
honest I honestly never thought about
this she said you know when your sex
life is going great
it feels like it's only 5% your life and
when your sex life is awful it feels
like it's 95% your life and that's the
reason I never thought of that is
because when my sex life is going great
I'm spending a lot of hours having sex
right like you know I mean so I actually
if the but it's true about perception
and feeling right because it's true like
we have period of time where we're
having enormous quantities of sex but
still I can say like from my perspective
like this isn't really important in my
life but what I'm worried about is
philosophy and politics and education
and career this is this is the stuff I'm
worried about thinking about even if
like literally you like well you know I
don't watch normal TV I don't play video
games like sex is my only hobby mean
like words so that I just said I thought
that was a really interesting thing in
framing it also yeah I feel the same way
even though I know it's not I know I
haven't had enough like action to show
that like I do care about yeah all the
same things like I of course like I do I
do want but I like I have these problems
but no like I really I don't know
so look I'll just receive the question
is I don't have the virtues that I said
you put you know I do actually want to
learn more I'm always like like in our
relationship at least like I've always
been wanting that time where I'm like
totally into studying like totally into
getting work done and I felt like for
like a couple months there like I was I
was really reading philosophy but okay
look was this brings me back to actually
what I was driving before so like I said
to you I already have an answer for this
but I'm asking you like what is the
solution if you ask okay like what is
the solution of the problem of beauty
being arbitrary and this way right now
part of my solution that I would propose
like if I have a friend you know I've
had friends who were really unattractive
for various reasons like including like
born conditions right yeah but if I'm
talking to a friend like that or
whatever like you know and this has been
implicit in a lot of my advice to you
also is look you've got to become
substantial in other ways like
intellectually where you really have a
sense of self confidence and Worth and
meaning in your life your lead leading a
meaningful life for these other reasons
right so you know that could be many
things it can't be anything I mean you
know I don't believe it can be something
like video games or skiing you know I
don't think it'd be something totally
self-indulgent but you know whether your
interest it's not going to be politics
for everyone it's not going to be
philosophy for everyone you know whether
it's you know but whatever it is where
you've got to be devoted to some area I
think ultimately of learning it's about
learning you know whether or not you
think of it as scholarly or something
where you're building up expertise yeah
and you're really leading a meaningful
life in a way that's not about your
appearance and I think you know that's
kind of what most people say to
hideously ugly people is like well look
you know you're never gonna be a model
you're never going to get away that
gonna get ahead that way you're never
gonna get as a model or an actor but you
know you can really have a sense of self
dignity and Worth and self esteem and
then also when you're leading that kind
of meaningful life you're probably gonna
meet other people who also find those
things meaningful and maybe some of them
are gonna want to sleep with you
you know I mean so I just say on a
really broad level you know that's how I
tend to approach the topic so what's
interesting is in this case it's within
a relationship you know you're you're
getting laid it's not it's not that
you're an insult or something it's not
that you're your sex life is lacking but
a lot of my approach has been like look
you've got to build up some sense of
self confidence and depth and substance
and expertise and self-worth that's not
based on how pretty you are because it
seems to me you're so rattled by just
the presence of other beautiful women
around me or talking to me or whatever
you know beaten I'm guessing to some
extent it's because you like that
but-but-but-but
I look I think I'm wrong like one of the
things I've got to say is I don't even
think that diagnosis is correct in your
case I think it's probably good advice
for a lot of people watching this I
don't think it's true in your case I
don't think that solution works and I
don't think that framing of the problem
applies well the your case you've talked
about the fact that some people who are
beautiful their intellectual capacity
has been stuff oh yes stifled you
snuffed out it was looked upon and just
the opportunities that brings them there
that has not been the case for me like I
know I was never thought of as beautiful
and school but even so look there was a
girl the very short version
there was a girl fell in love with me in
high school she was a year older than me
so she started University and I was
still in high school
and she became a stripper and she
dropped out of university to be a
stripper right
so in case you're not guessing I did not
reciprocate her love I did not fall over
there yeah my whole life would be
different of a head right mm-hmm
in a very real sense just the
opportunity to make hundreds of dollars
an hour I mean you know the amount of
money she made as a stripper was vastly
more than you know any job she could
have gotten with nothing but a high
school diploma not every young woman in
her
versity class faced that temptation of
that option yeah right so I mean like
I'm just saying obviously like you know
I mean this is there were a million
examples there are a million ways in
which it it impacts your life
but in her case you know and III do any
were really well at that time it wasn't
like she was in love with me from afar I
knew the other factors and she was
really in a cycle of kind of
self-loathing and self-pity and you know
just spoken a lot of cigarettes and you
know and she was getting into stripping
probably also what it did for ego was
probably a big thing to give her a ton
of money and suddenly every night she's
around men telling her she's so
beautiful and stuff you know and and
whatever work you I don't know if she
was 19 or what you know like you know
okay well not everyone you know you've
not ever deals with that you know well
what you said thinking about other
people's lives in a sympathetic way
really not saying their lives are easier
I do I did have friends who were
corrupted because they were very
beautiful and I agree with what you what
you're saying on that front I it was
something I said out of I don't know
rage and feeling like injustice that you
know pretty people have their lives
right well it's not necessarily true
because I just want to say you know
emphasized that my life has not been
about being beautiful in any way like in
I had one name well like I didn't have a
boyfriend all throughout high school and
I knew many many girls who were and
we're spending their time thinking about
you know relationships with boys and
that that did have a corrupting
influence on how they what they when
they went to college what they went to
university for if they got further
degree yes of course it has a huge
impact on your life has a huge impact on
the course the trajectory of what you do
absolutely and I just I I don't know why
I don't think about in that way and I
think I really should try to like think
of the individual and think of you know
what I guess I guess the number one
thing like like I think your advice is
good for for people that are trying to
find
partner sir you know try to have their
own confidence in their own intellectual
capabilities and I think it's good
advice for me - of course
well it's not gonna harm you but I don't
think it solves this problem I think it
solves this problem is in particular my
feeling like I really think it's just
insecurity about like you have you I
have no reason like logically to think
this because you've you've put so much
time into our relationship you've you've
really been doting like you talk to me
through talking me through with so many
things and we're moving we've moved
together and we're moving again together
you know your life has really like our
lives have revolves around each other
the past two years so yeah I have no
reason to think that you're going to
leave me well I mean okay I sort of do
recently because it's been so bad yeah
now I really know I like at the start of
the relationship I felt this way at the
start of this relationship I was worried
that you were going to find someone more
beautiful than me
someone with larger breasts I'm just
being honest like that is a huge factor
because there was born with small
breasts it's totally shallow and I know
even some people find it more attractive
it's like I realize that there are
adventures advantages are numerous what
disadvantages are also numerous well I
just mentioned all these things they're
kind of bottomless there's always
someone with bigger breasts than you
there's always some with a bigger penis
than you there's always someone with
more money than you you know all those
things yes someone with more background
that relates to your background yes
somebody's compatibility or something
I'm wearing right and somebody smarter
than you yeah sure so you start of the
relationship you know I had no reason to
think you know because of the problems
that we've had you were going to leave
me but now I really do have reason to
believe that in it even I wasn't
expecting you know cuz I felt like I had
been working like I felt like I've been
improving was with jealousy you know I
really thought I had but then like
because we've been having so many
relationship difficulties I was like
well this is the time if you were going
to leave me it would be now because you
know you're basically on the cusp of
leaving me so like if somebody more
beautiful more studies Chinese like has
been to vows has been to you know China
yeah hell yeah you're gonna jump off and
get on somebody else's ship not mine
because why you want to come down with
me it's burning the ship is burning with
me
right so go onto somebody else's [ __ ]
what like that is really why it's the
insecurity of you leaving me and me
never finding somebody that I love as
much
you know what rationally that doesn't
help my question is my question what
you've just presented is really a
clearly reasoned narrative you know what
that that makes sense when I'm with you
and you're freaking oh no no no no no no
but my point is like that's what you're
saying now reflecting on it I don't
really believe that's what's going on
with you when you have these freak oh
look you know what you just presented a
totally rational train of thought like
well you know because I've pushed you to
the break with breaking up with me
already yeah because because therefore I
feel this way but like you know I just
say in terms of the the feeling and then
the behavior that you know comes out of
it that that doesn't seem to be what's
actually going on so they're saying what
what you've just said that could kind of
be addressed and that could be fixed but
I think that would not be you know I
mean it wouldn't fix the problem we can
even you see within the span of a shoe
yeah
[Music]